you
this lecture is about the wraptor spaced
retrieval model we are going to give a
introduction to its basic idea in the
last lecture we talked about the
different ways of designing or retrieval
model which would give us a different
arranging function in this lecture we're
going to talk about the specific way of
designing a random function called a
vector space which will model and we're
going to give a brief introduction to
the basic idea vector space model is a
special case of similarity based models
as we discussed before which means we
assume relevance is roughly similarity
between the document and the query now
whether this assumption is true is after
a question but in order to solve a
search problem we have to convert the
vague notion of relevance into a more
precise definition that can be
implemented with the program integrity
so in this process we have to make a
number of assumptions this is the first
assumption that we make here basically
we assume that if the document is more
similar to a query then another document
then the first document would be
assuming to be more relevant than the
second one and this is the basis for
ranking documents in this approach again
it's questionable whether this is really
the best definition for relevance as we
will see later there are other ways to
model relevance the basic idea Baptists
raised to retrieval model is actually
very easy to understand in having a high
dimensional space where each dimension
corresponds to a term so here I show a
three dimensional space with three words
programming library and press danger
so each term here defines one by mention
now we can consider vectors in this
three-dimensional space and we're going
to assume that all our documents and the
query will be placed in this vector
space so for example one document might
be represented by this vector D one now
this means this document probably covers
library and presidential but it doesn't
really talk about programming all right
what does this mean in terms of
presentation of document that just means
we're going to look at our document from
the perspective of this vector we're
going to ignore everything else
basically what we see here is only the
vector attending of the document of
course
the document has other information for
example the orders of words are simply
ignored and that's because we assumed at
the back of orientation so with this
representation you can already see
deewana seems to suggest a topic another
presidential library now this is
different from another document which
might be recommended as a different
about the d2 here and in this case the
document recovers programming and
library but doesn't talk about the
presidential so what does this remind
you well you can probably guess the
topic is likely about the program
damaging and the library is software lab
library so this shows that by using this
vector space recognition we can actually
capture the differences between topics
of documents now in hell so imagine
there are other vectors for example
these three is pointing to that
direction
that might be above the president your
program and in fact we can press all the
documents in this vector space and they
will be pointing to all kinds of
directions and similarly we're going to
place our puree also in this space as
another vector
and then we're going to measure the
similarity between the query vector and
every document vector so in this case
for example we can either see t2 seems
to be the closest or to this query
vector and therefore d2 will be ranked
above others so this was basically the
main idea of that the vector space model
so to be more precise to be more precise
vector space model is a framework in
this framework we make the following
assumptions first will represent a
document and query by item vector so
here a term can be any basic concept for
example a word or a phrase or even
Engram of characters those are the
sequence of characters inside the world
each term is assumed to define one by
mention therefore any terms in our
vocabulary with defining an
n-dimensional space a pure vector would
consist of a number of elements
corresponding to the weights on
different terms each document a vector
is also similar it has a number of
elements and each value of each element
is indicating the weight of the
corresponding term here you can see we
are seeing there are n dimensions they
have all there are n elements each
corresponding to the weight on the
particular time so the relevance in this
case will be assumed to be the
similarity between the two vectors
therefore our ranking function is also
defined as the similarity between the
query vector and document vector now if
I ask you to write a program to
implement this approach in a search
engine you would realize that
this is far from clear right we haven't
said a lot of things in detail therefore
it's impossible to actually write a
program to implement this that's why I
said this is a framework and this has to
be refined in order to actually suggest
that particular ranking function that
you can implement on a computer so what
does this framework could not say well
it actually has an Isetta many things
that would be required in order to
implement this function first it did not
say how we should define or select the
basic concepts exactly we clearly assume
the concepts are orthogonal otherwise
there will be redundant for example if
two synonyms are somehow distinguished
as two different concepts then they
would be defining two different
dimensions and that would clearly cause
a redundancy here or over emphasizing of
matching this concept because it would
be as if you match the two dimensions
when you actually match one semantic
concept secondly it did not say how we
exactly should place documents and the
query in this space basically I show you
some examples of query and document
vectors but where exactly shoot the
vector for a particular document to
point to it so this is equivalent to how
to define the term weights how do you
compute those element values in those
vectors now this was a very important
question because the term word in the
query vector indicates the importance of
term so depending on how you assign the
weight you might prefer some terms to be
matched over others similarly the term
word in the document is also
very meaningful it indicates how where
the term characterizes the document if
you got it wrong then you clearly don't
represent the document accurately
finally how to define the similarity
measure is also not together so these
questions must be addressed before we
can have a operational function that we
can actually implement using a
programming language so how do we solve
this problems is the main topic of the
next lecture